what is web services ?
 - A piece of software which is makes itself available for internet. It is set of protocols or standards to exchange
 data between applications or systems. The exchange of data particularly happens in xml/json format. The important aspect
 of web services is to provide a service not necessarily UI for Humans. It is mostly for applications or systems.
 - Example : Retrieving information about product on Amazon.
             Placing and order on Amazon
 - Types of web services :
   1. SOAP(Simple Object Access Protocols) API : It works on any internet protocols(like http). And it only supports xml
        As it sends envelope to services providers it requires extra bandwidth. It uses user defined status code unlike
        http standard response code in case of REST

   2. REST(Representational State Transfer) API


APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces, are the connecting tissue between different systems or layers of an application.
Applications often have three layers: a data layer, a service (API) layer, and a presentation (UI) layer.
The API layer contains the business logic of an application - the rules of how users can interact with services, data,
or functions of the app.
Because the API or service layer directly touches both the data layer and the presentation layer,
it presents the sweet spot of continuous testing for QA and Development teams. While traditional testing has been focused on the UI,
the advantages of API testing are becoming well known.

While there are many aspects of API testing, it generally consists of make requests to a single or sometimes multiple
API endpoints and validate the response - whether for reliability, performance, security, functional correctness,
or just a status check. While UI testing may focus on validating the look and feel of a web interface or that
a particular payment button works - API testing puts much more emphasis on the testing of business logic, data responses
and security, and performance bottlenecks.

Types of API Testing:
1. Functional Testing: In this type of API testing actual business logic of API is tested. It checks if API responds
correctly to any requests made to API endpoint.
2. Load testing: It involves testing of API's performance and stability under stressful condition. It verifies if API
performs correctly under both normal and peak data input.
3. Runtime and error detection: This type testing ensure if API handles runtime error and exception correctly. This
includes testing for network timeout, memory leaks and incorrect inputs and other errors
4. UI Testing: This testing validates if API perform correctly within app's user interface. This type of testing ensure
API is handling UI input correctly and UI is reflecting API results correctly.
5. Penetration testing: It is a type of security testing that involves simulating attack from hackers to detect vulnerability
and weakness in API. This testing involves network scanning, vulnerability scanning and manual penetration testing to check whether
user with little expertise can gain full access of API including information like functions, process and resources.
6. Security testing: Security testing ensure if API is safe from external threats. It includes testing of structure of
access control, user rights management, validating encryption methodologies and authorization validation
7. Fuzz testing: Fuzz testing involves feeding large amount of unexpected and invalid data into API and to test if API can
handle unexpected data and recovers from errors.
8. Validation testing: This testing happens in final stage of API development and involves checking input data, output format
and response code.


The Benefits of API Testing
Earlier Testing -
With API testing, once the logic is designed, tests can be built to validate the correctness in responses and data.
We don't have to wait for various teams to finish their work or for full applications to be built
- test cases are isolated and ready to built immediately.

Easier Test Maintenance -
UIs are constantly changing and moving around based on how they are accessed - browsers, devices, screen orientation, etc.
This creates a nightmare scenario where tests are being constantly rewritten to keep up with the actual code in production.
API changes are much more controlled and infrequent - often times API definitions files like OpenAPI Spec can help make
refactoring tests only a seconds of work.

Faster Time To Resolution -
When API tests fail, we know exactly where our system broke and where the defect can be found.
This helps reduce time triaging bugs between builds, integrations, and even different team-members.
The small, isolated footprint of an API test is perfect for faster MTTR stats, a valuable KPI for DevOps teams.

Speed and Coverage of Testing -
300 UI tests may take 30 hours to run. 300 API tests could be run in 3 minutes.
That means you’ll find more bugs in less time, while also being about to fix them immediately.

API testing best practice:
1. Test a wide span of corner cases and conditions and use automated validation extensively.
2. Run tests throughout the lifecycle(development to deployment) of API: Idea is to test API early and test in different
environment.
3. Write Reusable subtest : Writing reusable subtests involves creating modular test scripts that can be reused for
multiple APIs.
4. Keep Your Tests Organized: Organizing your tests can help you manage your test suites more efficiently and make it
easier to identify and fix issues.
